 

PREFACE

a aoe one qumee decade period that Dir District, until recently
been workin een in the pace of development. Many agencies have
Govt De g in this very backward area. They include regular
Departme iigedaee) the local councils, the Rural Development
activi saesandvothers. Alongside constructive works, destructive

eee ae also been there wniich have caused a great damage
and there is a greater need now for curative measures. References
eee aes One tcl subjects in the coming pages.

Nonetheless, much more has been done and a good step forward
has been taken in the economic development of the area. If a man
who left this district two decades ago, is again visiting the area,
he would find it quite a different environment. He would be seeing
quick means of transport, some good pieces of road, good trade and
business and above all a net work of educational institutions in
the area. One cannot shun off the memory of the tough journey by
road when one could travel from Dir to Chakdara in not less than
nine long hours in the buses of old fashion.

We find that there is a net. work of feeder roads even to small
villages up in the mountains and the toyota pick-ups have brought
a revolution in getting at these distant point which previously
could only be reached after a day long toil and tough footwalk.
There has been quite a visible development in the infrastructure
and we see villages lit up with electricity every where.There are
suspension bridges, roads, schools, hospital, veterinary centres,
offices and every thing related to the concept of modern
development. Inspite of all these, there is still a great need for
accelerated development and much more have to be done for the
betterment of the masses specially the small farmers.

One of the negative development in this district is the
increased production of poppy during the past few years. It has
got its own reasons and this crop has now become a need of the
people specially in the valleys of Sultankhel, Usherai, Niag,
Tormang and Karo to whom a new name as Eastern Valleys has been
given. Some people have argued that poppy cultivation is a long
ola tradition of the area. This is an incorrect statement. Poppy
has never been a cash crop of the area specially during the reign
of Nawab, the late Shah Jehan who ruled the area for 35 long years.
(1925-1960) He had a very stern fist and would not allow anybody
to go for poppy: However growing of few plants for domestic or

medicinal purposes were not uncommon.
