:
+

 

8 months
mainly Beene eae pans aun vegetation in this zone includes
(Paloosa) Dadonees ane Olea cuspidata (Kau) Acacia modesta
comparatively high 1 +Scosa_ (Sanatha) and others. BO
as natural Veceeee: altitude Pinus rox burgii (Chir) is also found
been under the ion. Unfortunately this valuable forest tree has
very littl cruel cutting process for the last few decades and
e replenishment is done on community basis.

2. PINE ZONE

pie ouemseaten, 200 = 2,300 meters with severe cold winters
and mild summers. pine forest and range land constitute this zone.
Natural forest are Pinus roxburgqii (Chir) Pinua sallichina (Kail)
and pinus species (Chalghoza). Chir pine usually occurs below
1,700 meters while Kail ana Chalghoza above up to 2,300 altitudes.
Some Cedarus deodara (Diyar) also occurs on higher altitude. Only
one crop is possible in the upper limits of this zone due to snow
falls. Major crops are wheat, barley, maize and potatoes. This
zone has good potential for off season vegetables.

3. FIR ZONE

It is steep mountainous zone 2,300 - 3,200 meters altitude
with severe winters and pleasant cool summers. Natural vegetation
includes Cedarus deodara (Diyar) which is the main pine up to 2,400
meter. Above this is FIR and bread leave species likely Banj.
Timber production is the characteric of the zone.

4. ALPINE PASTURES

This zone is between 3,200 - 4,800 meters high which remains
frozen for the most part of the year. Only a short freeze free
season permits plant growth. There is some vegetation in the lower
part but the higher portions remain naked when unsheltered by snow

covers.
SUB DIVISION/TEHSILS UNION COUNCILS AND POPULATION

SUB DIVISION

 

This district has been sub divided into four sub Givisions,
administratively viz, Timergara, Samar Bagh, Wari and Dir.

TEHSILS

Each sub division consists of different number of tehsils.
Timergara is composed of four tehsils i.e. Timergara, Balambat. Lal
Qilla and Adenzai. _Samar Bagh has got two tehsils, Munda and Samar
Bagh. Wari is divided into two tehsils i.e. Wari and Khal. Dir
Sub Division consists of three tehsils of Dir, Barawal ana Kalkot.
