 

Mohamm
Niag Dara Seu ceace Khan had stationed his men in Sultankhel and
on these peo aes rol the people. He had forcefully imposed Ushar
pie and would collect it with irony hands. Sharif Khan

had to remain con
te ; . i yr 3
something to ROBeeR ve with his bad days in exile praying for

UMARA KHAN ATTACKS THE BRITISH ARMY

Chit ieee anne made up his mind to attack the British in
Munshi ene ae base Barawa. His shura le Amanul Mulk and
Briti ah advised him not to take ti: tsk of facing the

itish Army. They told him that as the conseo nce of his this
action he would get nothing but only " English ox: sian" meaning
ete would fall prey either to the British or to the Afghan
rulers. , However, he turned a deaf ear to the advice and started
preparation for attacking the British Army in Chitral. He captured
Drosh Fort after a fierce fight and defeated the Royal Army. The

British were in a very critical situation. They had the only
possible way to send their SOS call to Nowshera through a man
swimming along the river Kunar. (The family of that man in
recognition of his services with the help his Shanaz .tomthe

royal throne is still receiving the honorari«
THE PART PLAYED BY MIAN FAMILY OF NOWSHERA.

The local terminology used for the Chief British Officer used
to be "Lot" of the province (Means Lord). The lord named Ding
appointed Mian Rahim Shah Kakakhel as his chief adviser. He helped
the British a lot in planning for future advance into the area from

Nowshera northwards which was by that time ee zone out of the
control of the British. On the advice of Mi Rahim Shah, it was
decided in Peshawar that the real Khan of Di: ihammad Sharif Khan

be helped in reinstating him to his rulership in Dir, who will be
very useful in helping the British in getting further control of
the free area. A messenger was sent after Sharif Khan to Nalo,
Swat where he stayed by that time. He was informed of the decision
and was requested to lead the royal army to Dir. People in Swat
did not like the idea and they strongly opposed it. However, for
Sharif Khan it was a golden opportunity and he did not hesitate to

accept the offer.

RETURN OF SHARIF KHAN, 1895

Mohammad Sharif Khan reached Pargai via Palai without wasting
An army of 24,000 had reached Dargai. The people from

any time. ; a ;
Bae Bajaur and Dir came to fight this army in order to stop their
yh They fought a fierce battle with very crude weapons in

their hands and a holy war (Jehad) was declared. However, the
British army won the game as they had much superior weaponry and

good fighting skills.
