 

NAW
AB_ MOHAMMAD AURANGZEB KHAN (1904 - 1925)

Piet een ce ocean of Muhammad Sharif Khan, Muhammad Aurangzeb

brothers, Mia a) geslinter became Nawab of Dir. He had three other

step brother ‘i Gul Jan was his own brother while the other two were

with his f£ en Mian Gul Jan known as Munda Khan was displeased

prince. 4 Ske aol the decision of making Aurangzeb as crown

Cane: © revolted against the Nawab and was defeated and exiled
1 the death of his father.

_, Nawab Aurangzeb had some bad days when Mian Gul Jan, his
exiled brother after setting his dispute with him made secret
conspiracies against him in collaboration with Said Ahmad Khan
Mastkhel. They took in confidence some powerful Khans and Maliks
of Sindh, Maidan, Paindakhel and Khal. Mian Gul Jan also got the
Support of the Political Officers named Sahibzada Fazlur Rahman.
Mian Gul Jan defeated the Lashkar of Aurangzeb at Akhagram which
was commanded by Shah Jehan Khan, the crown prince. As a result
Nawab Aurangzeb was kept under home arrest by the British Political
Agent Malakand at Ziarat Levy Post, Lowari.

NAWAB AURANGZEB REGAINS POWER.

Nawab Aurangzeb one night, with the help of his friends and
colleagues escaped from the camp and reached Kohan in Niag dara
via Lowari, Kohistan.

Mian Gul Jan was a man of hot nature. He could not get the
sympathy of the public. The people soon turned against him and the
powerful Maliks and Khans went to Niag dara to convince Nawab
Aurangzeb Khan to attack Mian Gul Jan. The sons of Aurangzeb Khan
Muhammad Shah Jehan and Alam Zeb struggled hard to get the support
of the different tribes in Bajaur. Khan of Khar (Bajaur) also sent
his armed Lashkar in support of the Nawab and Mian Gul Jan was
defeated on the night of Idul Fiter 1911 (1331 H) Mian Gul Jan was
arrested and kept in Peshawar. He managed to escape and came to
Jandool to seek the protection of Said Ahmad Khan but was soon
assassinated probably by the Nawab through a hired man.

AURANGZEB'S STRUGGLES

Nawab Aurangzeb had a number of adventures against Said Ahmad
Khan Mastkhel, Abdul Jabbar Shah and Mian Gul of Swat and Abdul
Mateen Khan. there were battles every time both in Jandool and
Shamozai. Finally the British Govt. established a boundary line
petween Dir and Swat defining their respective territory. At last
aurangzeb Khan succeeded to overcome all his enemies and
strengthened his domain. Nawab Aurangzeb died in 1925 (1344 Hij -

Rajab)

20
