 

H .
of Ameen hee” into the villa of Khan of Barwa in a bundle
with whom he prom; e cattle. He sought the help of a maid servant
woman Ree ea Marriage if he succeeded in his mission. The
Gays when fin aa by supplying him food and everything for three
"DAMBALAPOOR! aw he succeeded in killing his brother with his
mother interf gun during evening time. He was arrested but his
second s ered and rescued him as she did not want to lose her
on at a time. Thus Umara Khan became Khan of Barwa.

Gas eae time Mohammad Sharif Khan ruled Dir as Khan of Dir.
Bens e wives of Sharif Khan, the mother of Aurang Zeb Khan (the

umb Nawab) named Shahi Bibi was the sister of Said Ahmad Khan Mast
Khel who was the Khan of Shahi. This Said Ahmad Khan was the
cousin of Umara Khan. Once someone fired a gun on Sharif Khan. He
See the fire. Shahi Bibi thought that it was Ashraf Khan who
had fired at the Khan. Ashraf Khan was the step brother of Sharif
Khan. Shahi Bibi sent a group of men to kill Ashraf Khan.

Ashraf Khan got the information of the plot against him and he
escaped to Barwa to seek protection of Umara Khan. He was given
Sadbar Killi. After settling there he instigated Umara Khan to
attack Dir to get the possession of the area by force. Umara Khan
after making all preparations invaded Dir with his Lashkar. There
were fierce fighting between him and the Fhan of Dir, Mohammad
Sharif Khan at Sundrawal, Dir Khan, Salamkot and Ala near Dir. The
Khan of Dir could not stand the attack and was defeated.

He left Dir to make his way to the Painda Khel area through
the hilltop of Girgat east of Dire After settling in Die, sUmara
Khan extended his possession to the Painda Khel and Sultan Khel
area. Now Sharif Khan had no choice except to seek shelter in Swat

where he reached via Karo Dara.

There was no central authority or regular rulership in Swat by
that time. People lived as independent tribes. As such Mohammad
Sharif Khan could not find the support of some powerful person from

Swat.

A step brother of Umara Khan named Mohammad Shah Khan was the
Khan of Maskini. This man was the son-in-law of Baba Sahib of
Rehankot (Dir) (Baba Sahib buried at Rehankot, is the grand father
of the present Sahibzadagan of Rehankot, Kotki and Sawni) Umara
Khan returned to Barwa (Samar Bagh) and he nominated the Khan of
Maskini to manage the Khani of Dir on his behalf. This Mohammad
Shah Khan remained Khan of Dir LO Tae hUl Shem years Umara Khan
arrested all the Akhun Khel Khans and took them to Barwa after hand

BREEN gecheme DE On eR TORE.

16
