a
:
a

 

AGRICULTURE

 

More acwccs 1s the main stay of the people of the district.
agriculture of the population is directly dependent on
department h See of the fact that the agriculture extension
ltSia t as been working in the district since 1960, yet there

great way to go ahead in making progress in this field. There

ee ig eee potential for development. The development of
Thee eee erence mostly dependent upon the development of
other sectors like the infrastructure roads, educational

eee eer availability of inputs, judicious use of fertilizer and
echnical know how and a number of other factors.

Q Extension education through a good extension team is of prime
Pa ora ee in bringing a change in the rural masses. There are
various factors which have retarded the progress in the field of
Agriculture. Some of these are:-

Less education of the rural masses.

Lack of resources.

Non availability of inputs.

Complication in getting agri. loans.

No coordination between extension and research.

Insufficient facilities for the extension staff.
Small holding ard the properietory right system
Factors effecting the ecology.

Direct erosion of the soil.

Less irrigational facilities.

DBNDUBWNP

rwo
Ore

These are some of the factors that are responsible for
hindrances in a quick progress in the agriculture field.

The holdings are so small and the per unit yield are too low
to fulfill the requirements of the farmer. Therefore the farmers
have to depend on alternate jobs along with agriculture, if he is

able to find one.

The farmer in some parts of the district mostly in the eastern
valleys has, out of necessity been cultivating Poppy so as to get
hand some return from the small, otherwise less productive piece of
land. The department of Agriculture has not been able to give any
substitute crop for poppy and probably there 1s no hope in future
that the crop could be replaced. — Comparative cost of production
and income from different conventional crops are given here which
would give a clear picture about the situation.

272)
