.

 

RY i
rr eee pre os Of Dugram, Kot, Mula Gujar, Diskor, Jatgram,
ae ees lai, Niag, Bandai, Ari Manzai, Qadar, Mathorh, Khandar
rand with their shamilats all in Niag Dara were given to the
g son Bahamat Khan. (1580-1636)
AKHOOND ILYAS (AKHOON BABA) (1626 - 1708)
Akhoon Ilyas son of Brahim son of Bahamat Khan son of Musa

mM ie .
nose eee and finally reached Sheikh Adam, commonly known as
eee inor. He was preaching religion in Delhi. This was the
e when Shah Jehan was ruling India. The emperor had banned the
entry of Hazrat Binor into Delhi. He cam to Bombay and was given
protection by Crown Prince Aurang Zeb, Alamgir the famous saintly
type king of the Mughal empire. Prince Aurang Zeb Alamgir managed
to send Hazrat Binor to Hajj via Adan.
L Akhoon Ilyas accompanied Hazrat Binor and performed pilgrimage
at Mecca. Therefrom he returned to his homeland in order to preach
IBIS { Oe. The Murshad gave him a pair of shoes and beeds as a
token of sacred belongings which were kept as sacred legacy by the
ruling dynasty in their custody in succession. The Akhoon became
an important religious personality to whom people diverged from far
and wide including the area of Bajaur, Swat and Buner in order to
get spiritual values and exaltation. By that time Dir was
inhabited by infidel people and were called as "Black Kafirs".

pe
i
_— Kh i . i
- an son of Painda was a saintly man. He was in search of some
=
a

Prior to this saintly man another Akhoon called Akhoon Salak
had also come to this area from Peshawar in order to preach
religion and fight against the infidelity prevailing in the area.

  
 

By the time Akhoon Baba came here two main tribes Painda Khel
and Sultan Khel had flourished well and were the two powerful
entities to be reckoned to in this area.

Akhoon Baba continued his; religious call and preaching with
zeal and devotion. This call attracted people from all walks of
life and from different places bringing with them valuables and
cash to be offered as gratifications. Similarly people offered him
arable lands as gratitude locally called (Serai or Shukrana). The
dynasty flourished becoming powerful both worldly as well as
religiously. They had a strong hold and dominance over the masses.
This status continued in the sons and grand sons of Akhoon.

MULLAH ISMAIL (1708 — 1782)

Akhoon Baba had his son named Mullah Ismail. This man was
also a religious preacher and a man of virtues. He is buried on
the opposite side of village Bibyawar across Panjkora, in the name
of "Loe Baba" (Grand fatherly mari) .

10
