Tete

  

™ |

  

SOME WELKNOWN TRIBES OF DIR DISTRICT

eI r
Nusrat panier es of the tribes of Paindakhel, Sultankhel,
previous pages and Ausa Khel has already been given in the
state of Dir eee oe there are other tribes dwelling the ex-
Gujar ana Son ey are Swati, Roghani, Shinwari, Dalazak, Wardag,
Afghanist pace These people have mostly migrated from
Stan, Bajaur, Swat and Buner.

in the north east of the district is the bi

i 2 g valley of
Beeaeaaeioaeuraced by Kohistani tribe. These people are the oldest
about Cee the soil. History does not tell us any clear cut clue
people apse eae rel One opinion is that the ancestors of these
Ten re the infidels called as "Black Kafirs". They embraced
pee neon aan the rest of the people of the area. However there
1s another opinion that the fore-fathers of these people migrated
here from the Arab peninsula before the dawn of Islam probably in
3 O0PARD. The reason of their migration is quoted to be internal
warfare between the different tribal factions. They entered the
subcontinent through the Abadan route of Persia.

_ The Kohistan tribe have different sections and sub sections of
which a few are Kator, Bichor, Mohammad Koori, Jakoori, Azakhel,
Asmani, Samandi, Madoor, Katani, Baladarshore.

TARKANI This tribe originates from Tarkan, the brother of Yousaf.
Tarkan Baba as he was called whose descendants are called as
ilies Salarzi

2 Kakazai
Bre Yousafzai
4. Ismailzai.

The Tarkani tribe living in Dir are the descendent of the
yousafzai and Ismailzai. the Yousafzai are dominant in the Jandool
area and Ismailzai in Maidan and Barawa.

The Yousafzai in Jandool are further divided into four sub-
branches of (1) Musakehl (2) Shabkhel (3) Alibe Khel and (4)
Khwary paw. Mishwani and Mendazai are other tribes who are
available mostly in Barawal and Barwa (Samarbagh) and Munda.

The ancient tribes of Adenzai area are Utmanzai and Babukhel.
The tribes of Brangola Badwan are Khadagzai and Abazai. In the
Adenzai Tehsil other tribes like Utmankhel, Wardag, Roghani and

others are also living.

Kadikhel is an alien tribe living on a vast area of
Paindakhel. This area 18 called as Kadikhel Dara. Similarly in
the Sultankhel a famous tribe called Roghani is living and is
occupying a big area called as Roghani Dara. These two tribes live

here with full ownership right with no dispute.

aa
