 

DISTRIBUTION oF THR AREA AND LANDED PROPERTY

 

The ae
Abaa) See uene from Akhagram to Koto Kuhna Dher (now called as Haji
to Khkul Ee ee Le Nusrt Khan. In addition the area westwards up

esa gaya Serai, was also added to it. It is after the

name of Nusr
Nusradin ie pean that | the people of these areas are called

pe 2 Colyairom Koeomtal Wale: Kandaw, Talash, Sado to

ari Gat was allotted to Awsa_ Khan. Therefore, the people
occupying these areas were termed as Awsa Khel. (This area also
includes Timergara, Andheri, Balambat and Malakand.

: The area from Khal to Khan Kas (Darora) on the right side of
i ae an) <OTcumWastgiven ton Guiltann In addition, the area
including Tormang called as Dalkha Khel right to Asbanr through the
hill-tops was also given to Sultan. The area on the right side of
Panjkora river covering Kotki, Pataw and the lower parts alongside
the Panjkora river were also giver. to Sultan. Now these areas on
the right side of the river are the property (Dawtar) of Sultan
Khel.

Painda was given comparatively less fertile and to some extent
barren parts consisting of un-irrigated patches and rough terrain.
It included the area stretching from Akhagram up to the top peaks
of Shalga to Shumai and Jabai, the farthest boundaries of Usherai
Dara which are the barriers with Swat. This was the domain of
Painda now called as Painda Baba. It also included Lar Jam, Urtha
Sind, Atan etc. The area from Khal bazar to Akhagram on the left
side of Panjkora is also the property of Sultan Khel. The area
along the NCC road from Akhagram to Darora (Khan Kas) is the
property of Painda Khel.

Alongside these big tribes there also live in these areas some
other small sections of other tribes seeking cover anda protection
of these big ones. They include tribes like Utman Khel, Swati,
Roghani, Shinwari, Dalazak, Wardag, Gujar etcls Theses t-ineee aes
now also flourished well alongside the dominant tribes.

PAINDA AND HIS SONS (PAINDA= 1500 - 1565)

Painda Baba had two sons named Mubarak Khan and Musa Khan. By
the time Painda was intending to subdivide his area of control
between his two sons, Mubarak Khan and Musa Khan, the later died
leaving his son Bahamat Khan to succeed him as legal heir. The
grand father was kind enough to allow Bahamat Khan the share his
father would have received had he been alive at Ghee times of

property distribution.
