 

GHULAM KHAN a(C1V7iB}2 = 1808)

Mullat i
enough Soeeerensa! BaesUcCeededisby uhicnsom Chu lame khan had
cash. This Be of worldly belongings including land, weaponry and
n started Craving for attaining the status of a Khan

alongside wij ee
custodian, *th religious leadership of which the dynasty was

KHAN ZAFAR KHAN (1808 - 1814 CHIEFDOM)
oe nce Was) the! son of Ghulam Khan who came out as a
under cont Sn setting aside the religion guise and-tried to bring
in Dir ee ce neighboring tribes. He left Bibyawar and settled
buri a the ruling Khan of Dir. However he died soon and was

ried on the left side of Panjkora near village Bibyawar in the
name of Warooki Baba (Small Baba).

QASIM KHAN (KHAN SHAHEED) 1814 - 1822

Qasim Khan was the son of Zafar Khan. He succeeded his father
and became Khan of Dir. His other brothers were Naseem Khan, Zahir
Khan and Bakoo Khan. The Akhoon Khel presently available in
Samkot, Batal, Ker Dara and Rokhar. are the sons of these brothers.

Qasim Khan expanded the "Kani" of Dir, consolidated his
position and merged out as an aristocratic ruler of the area. He
married the sister of the Wali of Chitral called as Shah Kator.

ASSASSINATION OF QASIM KHAN

Qasim Khan had four sons named Ghazan Khan, Muhammad Said
Khan, Azad Khan and Sadullah Khan. Qasim Khan was assassinated by
his son Azad Khan. He is buried in Dir proper in the name of Khan
Shaheed, just at the foot of the royal palace Dir.

GHRAZAN KHAN (1822 —- 1866

Qasim Khan was succeeded by his son Ghazan Khan who was from
the wife named Khunza Bibi, the sister of Shah Kator, Wali of
Chitral. Ghazan Khan was ascended to the throne at an ACIS Oi 7
years. He killed some of his brothers and exiled the rest. He
expanded his domain to Asmar in the west, to Gad in north and in
the south to Sakhakot and in the east to Swat. He ruled for 46

Hong eyiecans.

Ghazan Khan was now a typical ruler Khan and Gradually the
Babaism ( a term carrying religious connotation) had now started to
shapen itself into Khanism with a stronger fist of rulership or at
least with an identity of a tribal eldership. The ruler was not
only respected but he also exercised a self determined authority of
power.

zB
