 

UMARA KHAN'S RESISTANCE 1895

Umara khan offered
some res
place between Talash ana Tene
away to Kabul.
Dir with Sharif

istance to the army at Shagokas a
gara but could not stand and fled
On 17 April 1895 the British army advanced towards
Khan as the Chief guide and controlling authority.

SHARIF KHAN IS WELCOMED

 

Before their advance towards Dir people from all parts of Dir
pa reached Chakdara to welcome Sharif Khan. They ineluded elders
rom Sultan Khel and Paindakhel as well. The army after reaching
Dir advanced to Chitral. Before the army reached Dir, Muhammad
Shah Khan had also escaped to Kabul via Binshahi. The army at
Chitral arrested Amanul Mulk and sent him to India. Shujaul Mulk
was declared as the Mehtar of Chitral by the British Government.

Mohammad Sharif Khan was installed officially as Nawab of Dir
under an agreement signed on December 12, 1895.

SHARIF KHAN CONSOLIDATES HIS POSITION

; Nawab Sharif Khan now started consolidating his position in
Dir. He started reorganizing his administrative machinery.

He appointed Said Ahmad Khan Mastkhel as the Hakim of Barwa
Jandool. This man was the cousin of Umara Khan. He was a friend
and devotee of Sharif Khan and remained with him in his odd time in
exile.

He also appointed his own son Mian Gul Jan as Hakim of Munda.
Similarly the areas of Sindh, Barawal and Maidan were given to his
own trustworthy people and thus he laid a firm foundation of

Nawabdom.

Sharif Khan died at the age of 60 years in 1902 on the night
of Idulfiter at Timergara. His dead body was carried to Dir where
he was buried in the royal graveyard.

REDEMARCATION OF THE BOUNDARIES OF DIR STATE

Before the British arrived the state of Dir included in the
north the area upto Asheret and Gad, in the East upper Swat,
nikpikhel and Shamozal. The British separated the area of Ashret
and Gad and deciared it as part of Chitral. They also declared
Jandool as legal part of the state of Dir. A written notification

ar t was notified in Dec. 1898 by the Govt. of India and

this effec : ‘ ; +
sea the state of Dir was finally established with its fixed

boundaries.

Ae)
