 

FRCGGEee ae ne migrated to Afghanistan with hundreds of
country mn was the time when Amir Abdur Rahman was ruling the
Khan of Dokri Paste of Sharif Khan included Abdul Hasan Biland
Qashqar Kh ’ Khan of Maidan Bandai, Haji Khan of Maidan (known as
and meee iso dignitaries from Adenzai, Maidan, Larjam, Barjam
resultin att While on way, an epidemic broke out at Asmar
They ea in complete devastation of these migrating families.
to k ee wiped out except a few dozens who could reach Kabul
seek the protection of the Amir, the king of Afghanistan.

The king asked his Commander-in-Chief Ghulam Haidar Khan to
construct a road to Bin Shahi to link Dir so as to envade Umara
Khan and reinstall Mohammad Sharif Khan as Khan of Dir. This was
the time when a defined demarcation line had not been established
between Afghanistan and the area constituting now the borders of
Pakistan. The Afghan king would keep two platoons of National Army
in Bajaur and Mohmana to protect the Frontiers of the country from
any possible threat from this side.

The General, Ghulam Haidar Khan requested the king that they
had been spending huge amount just to upkeep a dry barren land
(Bajaur) which was an unfruitful expensive exercise. The Amir of
Afghanistan had already been requested by the British to allow
Bajaur to their possession in return of Rs.1,800,000. Having
agreed on the terms a British Officer named Dewrand signed for the
British and Mohammad Umar Khan son of Ghulam Haidar Khan signed as
representative of the Afghan Govt. and thus the Dewrand line was

established.
RETURN OF SHARIF KHAN TO SWAT

Shamiteaekban! now. understoods that as) a inesult sso the
establishment of Dewrand Line, the Afghan king could not help him
as he was bound by the agreement to keep himself within his
territory. The Amir of Afghanistan offered him big estates and
lana if he wanted to remain in Afghanistan. Mohammad Sharif Khan
had great desire for regaining his own homeland, and, therefore,
left Afghanistan after having received precious gifts and valuables
from the Amir. He reached Nawagai via Bajaur and remained with the
Khan of Nawagai for some time. Therefrom he went to Peshawar via
Mohamand Agency and stayed as guest with Arbab Fareed Khan of
Tehkal for a few weeks. He then came to Swat via Palai Sher Khani
and settled down in Mingora. He purchased a Muhella with
Rs.6,000.00. The local people gave him "Pan Chakies", and "Pekos"
and the revenue from Ushar of the lands from upper Swat to Thana.

1/ Panchaki is the locally made floor mill run by water.
Peko is the water run mill used for unhusking paddy.

2/

a7
