 

Whach ene FRA QMe oe new era, Dir saw three different periods in
of attention were three income sources or fields.

DS Ucacichvemenileldmrormiman eople. The first forest
pee aor eNed connecting Dir and Reisen There hummed up the
, the forestman, the capitalist and every one else and
milli i trees started. Some people became

onalres at the cost of the reserved forest wealth. After some
years the game slowed down and there was general overturn towards
the Middle-East and Gulf states in order to earn more and to keep
USS Seach as|, People used every thing possible to get into
the Gulf States. Even fake visas were used for this purpose.

The peak was the seventies and early eighties when people
managed to go out in great number to the Arab states. They did not
invest their hard earned money in any profitable business but

started building pacca houses to be furnished with modern
amenities. They found little jobs on return and had to search for
new Sounce of income. They could find none except the "Drug
Business".

There was a heavy demand for the white powder and raw opium
and the business thrived well. On the basis of the "supply and
demand" the cultivated area increased under the poppy crop and it
took a heavy toll when the attention of all the people was diverted
to its alarming proportions. The west was greatly affected as the
drug addiction there increased at an alarming rate. They had to do
something to curb the evil. The current strategy is to strengthen
enforcement on the trafficking. But on the production side the
policy is to develop the areas through the development process to
such an extent that income starts accruing from income generating

schemes.

The scope of this work is vexy limited and cannot encompass
the whole past, present and future of the district with reference
teOmdenle development process. However, a little can be mentioned of
the green sector in an elaborated form since the development of the
area is directly dependent on Agriculture as more than 85% of the
population is connected in one way or the other to this profession.

The story of Dir remains incomplete when it is separated from
that of the ruling dynasty of the ex-state. There is very little
information available about the history of the CXS Staton test SErors
that reason that a small account will be given of the ex-ruling
dynasty so as to have a background of the area. It is specially
important for those who are engaged 1n one way or another, in the
ea onene al works of Dir that they should know a little bit of
ane historical background of the district.

ne
