 

 

K
HAN RAHMATULLAH KHAN (1866 - 1880)

The nominated 5s
affairs after the q
his death in 1880.
Ramatullah Khan is pb

uccessor Rahmatullah Khan took the helm of the
eath of his father Ghazan Khan. He ruled till
ee Khan generally called locally as
Moh A ied in Dir. Rahmatullah Khan had ten sons;
RHenpIpe eens Khan, Sher Mohammad Khan, Hayatullah Khan, Jamroz
DA ievosvn Kh an, Sikandar Khan, Datullah Khan, Shah Nasim Khan,

an and Rosham Khan. While still alive Rahmatullah Khan

IRE enarino un tees cect ‘
d the areas of his domain amongst his sons.

Coe eeee Sharif Khan who was the crown prince’ and also the
enented in-Chief of the army turned against his father and

ated great problem for him, instigating different tribes to rise
Soe otc emer Uler: He invited Umara Khan against his father.
Umara Khan captured a number of fortresses of Rahmatullah Khan in
hee neamectecind.slecter \thelideath of Rahmatullah Kanednenesor

Mohammad Sharif Khan quickly moved from Sharingal and succeeded his
father as ruler of Dir.

MOHAMMAD SHARIF KHAN (1848 - 1904) RULED FROM 1880 - 1890 AND 1895
-_ 1904

Mohammad Sharif Khan is the man in the series who was formally
declared as Nawab by the Britishers. Mohammad Sharif Khan had
escaped an assassination attempt by his brother Jamroz Khan. He
killed Jamroz Khan and his son and began to rule the State but had
a number of adventurous events during his tenure as the Nawab so
much so that he had the sad experience of exile. An account of his
life will be given in the coming pages.

Mohammad Sharif Khan had four sons. Amongst them Mian Gul Jan
and Aurangzeb Khan were from one mother and the other two i.e.
Sultan Mohammad Khan and Mohammad Issa Khan were from other two
mothers. Mohammad Sharif Khan divided the state amongst his sons.

Mian Gul Jan, whose real name was Shah Rawan, was given Munda
in Jandool and Sharingal in Urtha Sind. Sultan Mohammad Khan known
as Sangar Khan was given Sadbar Killi in Jandool and Dog Dara in
Dir Tehsil. Mohammad Issa Khan known as Darory Khan was given
Darora, Jughabanj, Manoogay etc. Aurang Zeb who succeeded Sharif
Khan as ruler of the State was also known as "Dumb Nawab", though
411 and paralyzed to some extent, he had all the qualities of a

good ruler. He succeeded his father as ruler of the State.

ae
