‘SS eesgeiieansaan et

 

NAWAB
AURANG ZEB _(BADSHAH KHAN) (1904 - 1925)

Born in 18
(1904 = 1925), 74, Nawab Aurang Zeb ruled the State for 21 years

Jehan and Alam Bene four sons. Amongst them the two i.e. Shah
servant in the hou Khan were from one mother. She was a maid
in Barawal area paeorechc Nawab and came from village Bilachand
Aurang Zeb Khan . This beautiful woman was married by the Nawab
the daughter of The third son named Bacha or Badshah who was from
an early age Mi famous Malik of Swat called Chaman Malak died at
Timer is still ve fourth son Bakht Jehan Zeb Khan known as Khan of
very noble m iving and commands a very good reputation. He is
EOC Teter ee and takes keen interest in the wéll being and

ood a i Cenc ar He has proved himself to be the custodian of
gc and positive traditions of the dynasty. His mother was the
sister of the famous Mehtar of Chitral Sir Shujaul Mulk.

: Nawab Aurang Zeb declared Shah Jehan as crown prince during
INS, Waza,

NAWAB SIR SHAH JEHAN KHAN (1925 - 1960)

Nawab Shah Jehan was declared as legal Nawab of the State in
1925, after his father's death. The Chief Commissioner of the NWFP
through a notification declared him as the Nawab. In 1926 the
Viceroy visited the area and met Shah Jehan. In 1929 again the
Nawab had a meeting with the Vicervy while he was on a visit to the
State. In the year 1930 the Vicervy again paid visit to this part
of the province and went up on to the Kamrani top.

There was tussle between Shah Jehan and Alam Zeb Khan and both
had groups of influential Maliks and Khans on their sides. Finally
Nawab Shah Jehan succeeded in exiling Alam Zeb Khan from the State.
He sought refuge in Khar Bajaur. In the year 1931 an agreement was
reached between Nawab Shah Jehan and the Khan of Khar. Under this
agreement the Khan of Khar was now bound not to give refuge to Alam
Zeb and he went to Utman Khel Area.

Nawab Shah Jehan was a man of old traditions. He did not like
the people to receive modern education and kept them ignorant of
the latest turn in the civilization. He did nothing for the
welfare of the public and even did not like people going Ques inn
search of knowledge and education. The Govt. of Pakistan had also
to fulfill her obligations to the people of the State. The Nawab
was asked through the Resident Commissioner to allow the welfare
institutions like school and hospital in his state, but he always
opposed these things. At last the Govt. of Pakistan had to take
action and dethroned the Nawab on 9 October 1960. He remained
house arrest in Lahore till his death in 1968.

13.
